
# 11_IRQ_informal_site_analysis

This repository contains the data cleaning and analysis for IRAQ
informal site assessment.

**Primary data collection time period:** Household data collection took
place between 05 December 2021 and 26 February 2022. In total, 2,327
households were assessed across 157 informal sites and 37 sub-districts
in Iraq.

**Methodology:** A mixed-method research methodology was used for this
assessment, which incorporates household-level sampling in each assessed
informal site, along with key informant interviews - 1 per site. The
criteria for site identification was based on IOM-CCCM Masterlist, and
sites which included populations of 30 or more families. The threshold
on family numbers was not taken into account for the following
sub-districts: Markaz Sumail, Fayde, Markaz Mosul, Markaz Zakho,
Baâ€™adre, and Markaz Shirqat. For operational purposes, all sites were
considered in the calculations of the sampling, for these six
sub-districts. Survey data was collected at family level and key
informant (site representative) level, within each site, remotely
through phone interviews and face-to-face, depending on the situation in
the locationat at the time of data collection. Where data was collected
face-to-face a cluster sampling approach (90% level of confidence and a
10% margin of error) was employed at sub-district level in order to
achieve representative information in certain these sub-districts. Where
remote data collection was employed, the purposive sampling method aimed
to reach enough surveys to keep the sample size consistent with the
calculated representative sample sizes; however, findings are not
statistically representative with a quantifiable degree of precision.

**Geographic Coverage:** This exercise covered informal sites with a
minimum of 30 families located in the governorates of Al-Anbar,
Al-Najaf, Baghdad, Duhok, Erbil, Kirkuk, Ninewa, Salah Al Din and
Wassit.

*The Terms of Reference can be found
[here](https://www.impact-repository.org/document/reach/9116175b/IRQ2110_ToRs_and_Annex_Informal_Sites_Profiling_and_Intentions_November-2021-1.pdf)*
